# AppleBrainBoard
Use the BrainBoard to load DOS 3.3 on Apple II+ or IIe power up. WORKSV10.ASM code only works in an APPLE II+. WORKSV12.ASM is for the IIe.
After power up you can use the hot keys below.

Hot keys-
Control + B + Reset = Load DOS
Control + C + Reset = Load DOS and Catalog disk
Control + M + Reset = Enter the Monitor. DOS does not load. IF you exit the Monitor with 3D0G DOS loads. Or you can do the Control B.
Control + Open-Apple + Reset = Boot from Disk
Control + Closed-Apple + Reset = Launch Self Test. You can then Control + B + Reset to load DOS.

Note that the IIe version looks for the Open and Closed Apple keys. If you hold Control + Open-Apple + Reset the Apple will reboot.
Holding Control + CLosed Apple + Reset will launch the built in self test. The other hot keys work the same as in the II+. 

Additionally a Control+C Reset will load DOS and then catalog a disk in disk drive #1. Control+M Reset puts you into the Monitor, but
disk access isn't working. I am working to figure that out. But you can exit the Monitor with 3D0G and then disk access is enabled again.

The code expects to be loaded into a 27C256 EPROM (or a EEPROM). Currently the code resides in the bank 0 of the Brain Board.
I found the Brain Board for sale on Ebay. I since have located websites about the board.
Found this link regarding the Brain Board: 
https://www.willegal.net/appleii/brainboard.htm

This latest version assembly WORKSV10.asm appears to be working as desired. The two master hex files "II+ WORKSV10 slot 4 256k Winbond.HEX"
and "II+ WORKSV10 slot 5 256k Winbond.HEX" are ready to be loaded into a 27c256 or a Winbond EEPROM 27E257.

The file "DOS#066d00.BIN" is DOS 3.3 I copied from my II+ to my old XP machine using ADT. I then used Ciderpress to get the raw binary data.
The file should load into an eprom programmer application if read as a BIN file. I grabbed DOS from my Apple II+ just because I wanted to compare it to the DOS that I had pulled from my old DOS HOSS eproms, which is what I used to pack DOS into the Brain Board EPROM. Anyway, both DOS were the same. Just wanted to make sure I had DOS correct.

Back in the 80's I converted an Apple ROM card to be a DOS HOSS from Jim Sather's book Understanding the Apple IIe.
I took the ROMs I created from that project and extracted Apple DOS from those ROMs, as well as the F8 monitor code.
I then packed this all into a new 27c256 EPROM. I then figured out a way to transfer the DOS into the Apple II+, doing it a bit different
than the way Jim did it. Seems to work. Future project will be to add Integer Basic load using the upper bank of ROM in the
Brain Board. I think I could have the brain board put additional code into the Apple on boot that can handle loading Integer, which would require switching banks. Switching the ROM banks on the Brain Board from code running on the Apple should get the job done.

Note that "II+ WORKSV10 slot 4 256k Winbond.HEX" (and the HEX file for slot 5) is the file containing the complete code for the 27c256 EEPROM. If you change the assembly code in WORKSV10.ASM and compile, you then need to convert the obj file generated by the compiler into hex. Then to prepare a file for the eprom, first load the complete ROM hex file into your eprom programmer software. Then I use Bintel.com to convert the obj to hex and bin. You must load your new assembly code hex file starting at $1000 into the EEPROM. This memory location in the EPROM works out as $D000 in the Brain Board. There isn't much space left for this custom program before the DOS code. THe DOS code begins at $D400 in the Brain Board memory map. Note that when inserting your new assembly code to replace WORKSV10.HEX in the EEPROM, don't let your programmer software clear the buffer, as you want to keep everything as is that got loaded from the master hex file and just replace the code that lives starting at $1000. Hope this makes sense to anyone new to programming EPROMS.

I plan to expand this readme as time permits. There are notes in my assembly source code that will be helpful.
